---
description: >-
 Firebase Database
title:  Firebase database          # Add title here
date: 2024-05-29 08:00:00 -0600                           # Change the date to match completion date
categories: [21 Mobile, Data Storage - Firebase DB]                     # Change Templates to Writeup
tags: [mobile, data storage, firebase]     # TAG names should always be lowercase; replace template with writeup, and add relevant tags
show_image_post: false                                    # Change this to true
#image: /assets/img/machine-0-infocard.png                # Add infocard image here for post preview image
---

### Firebase DB

Contrary to SQLite and Realm DB, which store data locally, Firebase is a cloud database. It allows developers to collect data from many application users and store it online in JSON format. If a device generates data that must be stored in the database while offline, that data is temporarily stored locally. When the device goes back online, Firebase automatically synchronizes the local data with the online instance.

Due to its online nature, carefully enforcing authorization and access control in Firebase is of paramount importance. By default, all data is public and can be accessed by every user. Granular read and write permissions should be configured for each database object through Database Rules.

We can retrieve publicly available data from misconfigured Firebase instances by browsing to the URL `<projectname>.firebaseio.com/.json` "firebase ProjectName" corresponds to the name of the Firebase instance we are trying to access. To obtain this name, we can use the Firebase Scanner tool, available on [Firebase-Scanner-Tool](https://github.com/shivsahni/FireBaseScanner). Alternatively, we can locate it by reverse engineering the mobile app and inspecting the code.

The following methodology is a good option for firebase databases:

[Pentesting-firebase](https://cloud.hacktricks.xyz/pentesting-cloud/gcp-security/gcp-services/gcp-firebase-enum)