---
description: >-
  Seatbelt tool for Windows Privilege Escalation
title: Seatbelt for PrivEsc             # Add title here
date: 2023-02-03 08:00:00 -0600                           # Change the date to match completion date
categories: [04 Privilege Escalation, Windows - SeatBelt]                     # Change Templates to Writeup
tags: [windows privesc, seatbelt]     # TAG names should always be lowercase; replace template with writeup, and add relevant tags
show_image_post: false                                    # Change this to true
#image: /assets/img/machine-0-infocard.png                # Add infocard image here for post preview image
---
## SEATBELT

Seatbelt is a C# project that performs a number of security oriented host-survey "safety checks" relevant from both offensive and defensive security perspectives. You can download from here: [SEATBELT](https://github.com/GhostPack/Seatbelt)

It needs to be compiled, you can follow this guide to compile a C# project using visual studio:
[DotNet Project Compilation](https://shuciran.github.io/posts/dotNET-Project-Compilation/)


Below are some common examples of how to use Seatbelt to enumerate information and discover potential privilege escalation opportunities on a Windows system:

### Basic Enumeration:
This command runs Seatbelt with the -all flag, which performs a comprehensive enumeration of the system. It provides a wide range of information, including running processes, services, scheduled tasks, user privileges, installed software, and more.
```powershell
.\Seatbelt.exe -all
```

### User Information:
This command checks the User Account Control (UAC) settings and privileges for the current user. It helps identify potential UAC bypass opportunities.
```powershell
.\Seatbelt.exe -uac
```

### Service Enumeration:
This command enumerates information about running services on the system, including their configuration, permissions, and associated binaries. It can help identify services that might be vulnerable to exploitation.
```powershell
.\Seatbelt.exe -services
```
### Scheduled Tasks:
This command lists the scheduled tasks on the system, including details about their execution and permissions. Scheduled tasks can be used to execute code with elevated privileges.
```powershell
Copy code
.\Seatbelt.exe -t
```

### Registry Information:
This command provides information about the system's registry settings and keys. It can help identify registry-based privilege escalation opportunities.
```powershell
.\Seatbelt.exe -registry
```

### DLL Hijacking Opportunities:
This command checks for DLL hijacking opportunities by examining the search order for loading DLLs by various processes. It may reveal potential privilege escalation vectors.
```powershell
.\Seatbelt.exe -dll
```

### Network Enumeration:
This command provides information about the system's network configuration, firewall settings, and active network connections. It can help identify network-related attack vectors.
```powershell
.\Seatbelt.exe -wan
```

### Application Whitelisting Bypass:
This command checks for application whitelisting bypass opportunities on the system. It identifies executables that may be used to run code with elevated privileges.
```powershell
.\Seatbelt.exe -bypass
```

### PowerShell Profile Enumeration:
This command looks for PowerShell profiles and their associated scripts, which may contain malicious code or configuration changes.
```powershell
.\Seatbelt.exe -powerShell
```

### Recent Files and Folders:
This command lists recently accessed files and folders, which may reveal interesting information about user activity on the system.
```powershell
.\Seatbelt.exe -recent
```